            
            	 Travel Habits 
             
                            

	 Forests, water and ancient sites…they are our past, our present, our future.They are sacred. Treat them as such 

 

	Golden Rules Of Sensitive Travel 

 

	DO NOT LITTER. Take ALL Your Garbage Home 

 

	Keep a ‘shopping bag’ with you and put ALL your litter (including bio-degradable garbage) in it.At the end of the day, dispose of it in your guest house, or take it home 

 

	DON’T leave YOUR garbage all along the road, where you had a picnic and bath.Leave it ONLY in your garbage bag, or in YOUR pocket. 

 

	Be Respectful, Be Civilized 

 

	In a place of worship, in a forest, in a village, in an ancient place…behave with respect. A civilized person is sensitive to others in terms of noise, words, behaviour, and dress. Insensitivity is a sign of an uncivilized person 

 

	Don’t smoke or consume liquor in PUBLIC SPACES 

 

	If you cannot do without alcohol and smoking, do it privately in your guest house or room. NOT in public places. CONSUMING ALCOHOL AND SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW. 

 

	  

 

	There are Beautiful Natural and Ancient Sites in SriLanka. REMEMBER 

 

	  

 

	 

		 

			In the Forest and Nature Reserves 

		 

		 

		 

			 

				If everyone takes home a plant, a flower a fruit.what will be left in the forest? Take only memories and photos. 

			 

				Do not speed in vehicles, do not drive off the trail.all this destroys fragile nature 

			 

				Keep quite, listen to the sounds of nature…it’s what you came to hear. 

		 

		 

		 

			At a Wewa or Stream 

		 

		 

		 

			 

				Be respectful towards villagers that use the water. 

			 

				Be mindful of animals that use the water. 

			 

				Be sensible and consider your own safety. Check with locals regarding particular dangers of the location 

		 

	 

	 

		 

			At Archaeological Sites 

		 

		 

		 

			 

				Do not scratch your name on anything except your own note book 

			 

				Avoid standing on ancient walls, pushing and moving ancient stones and bricks 

			 

				Be respectful if photographing people near shrines and statues, even if they are ruins 

			 

				if there are resident Bhikkus, get permission from the head priest before proceeding 

			 

				In functioning monasteries please visit at allowed times, do not disturb the meditating monks 

		 
